and we're going to kick off with a
keynote on the future of money so it
really is about looking forward we're
going to have a future stargazing
session this morning and someone who
doesn't need a lot of introduction to
other than to say he is a world-class
expert in his field has come to South
Africa to talk to us Andreas
Antonopoulos welcome South Africa and
welcome to the conference hi good
morning everyone I am so excited to be
here
so this conference was called the
Bitcoin conference a couple of years ago
and now it's the blockchain conference
next year it's going to be the DLT
technology and then after that is going
to be the database inspired by but no
longer in any way related to blockchain
conference it's an interesting
progression let me do a quick poll of
the audience I want to get an idea of
your level of experience and familiarity
with this space so I'm going to go back
to the yesteryears of Bitcoin how many
of you currently own Bitcoin fantastic
and those who don't own Bitcoin how many
of you have conducted a transaction or
seen a transaction happen in Bitcoin
great and how many do not own any
cryptocurrency of any type okay great
how about people who are involved with a
cerium and own aetherium great - Manero
Z cash
got some interesting okay how many own
blockchain how many have used blockchain
in a transaction or in any way other
than the five things I mentioned
previously all right
okay so break down for you for those who
can't see what the audience is doing
about 60 to 70 percent have a Bitcoin at
the moment or have conducted a
transaction about 30 or 40 percent with
aetherium smaller minority with -
montero's e cash nobody owns blockchain
and this is interesting this is exciting
great so let's get started what exactly
is going on here is this the greatest
technological innovation and explosion
of innovation since the mobile internet
or maybe even the internet itself or is
this the greatest load of hype ever
arranged around the technology in the
history of technology both and in fact
that's a characteristic of advanced
technologies I often say that where
Bitcoin and the other open block chains
are today is approximately where the
Internet is in 1992 in terms of
technology in terms of infrastructure
deployment in terms of adoption patterns
this technology is approximately where
the internet was in 1992 but the hype
around blockchain is exactly where the
hype around the internet was in 1998 you
know what comes next
there will be a shakeout when the waters
recede you can tell who on the beach
wasn't wearing a swimsuit they stand
there naked it's an empty promise this
will happen in the blockchain space
there is a lot a lot of bullshit being
peddled to VCS to investors to initial
coin offering buyers to uneducated
investors there's a lot of Ponzi schemes
there's a lot of pyramid schemes there's
a lot of empty promises there's also a
lot of businesses usual disguise this
innovation disguised as disruptive
technology and so we're at this strange
moment where the underlying technology
really is truly is massively disruptive
massively innovative the amount of
research that's happening today in
applied cryptography is unprecedented we
are looking at the largest civilian
deployment of public key cryptography
ever because it turns out that people
only protect keys when those keys are
attached to value and nothing teaches
someone security fast enough than having
their Bitcoin on a Windows machine
holding your own Bitcoin very quickly
changes your attitude towards
information security you didn't care
about your photos some didn't even care
about your sexy photos you didn't care
about your location the fact that
everything you do was tracked you didn't
care about posting your entire life on
Facebook you use the same password
password 1 2 3 4 on 17 different sites
you didn't know what two-factor
authentication was and then bitcoin
happened and suddenly you're on a steep
learning curve and getting better every
day
now you're telling your friends about
two-factor authentication and you're
horrified to remember how you used to
practice security because storing value
has this unique ability to focus your
mind on the aspects of security that
matters so this technology is driving
this groundswell of security awareness
it's driving the most incredible
research and applied cryptography we've
ever seen some of you are probably quite
technical you're involved in computer
science you've seen what's happening
here nobody thought that we would be
doing Applied Schnoor signatures nobody
thought we'd be looking at advanced
elliptic curve applications nobody
thought we'd be doing things like ring
signatures and range proofs for
confidential transactions the state of
anonymity and privacy is advancing
rapidly we're building a whole new world
in terms of cryptography and this is
applied cryptography on the largest
cryptographically secured network the
world has ever seen that's not business
as usual it's highly disruptive now out
of that came this fantastic saying
blockchain is the technology behind
Bitcoin which is incorrect blockchain is
one of the four foundational
technologies behind Bitcoin
and it can't stand alone but that hasn't
stopped people from trying to sell it
blockchain is Bitcoin with a haircut in
a suit that you parade in front of your
board it's the ability to deliver a
sanitized clean comfortable version of
blockchain of Bitcoin to people who are
too terrified of actually disruptive
technology and so you get into this very
strange world where the words no longer
mean anything
can you define blockchain for me I think
a few people in this room could probably
define blockchain but the real challenge
would be can you define blockchain in
such a way that I can do search and
replace with the word database and still
make that sentence work because that's
the challenge if what you're doing is a
database with signatures it's not
interesting it's boring what is the
essence of Bitcoin it's not blockchain
the essence of Bitcoin is the ability to
operate in a decentralized way without
having to trust anyone the essence of
Bitcoin is to be able to use software to
authoritative lis independently without
appeal to Authority verify everything
yourself you don't trust the other nodes
you're talking to you assume they're
lying you don't trust the miners you
don't trust the people creating the
transactions you don't trust anything
other than the outcome of your own
verification and validation and through
that you end up trusting in something
more important the network effect
Bitcoin introduced the concept of
decentralized security through
computation and this has not yet sunk in
what Bitcoin does is it allows you to
replace a security model that is based
around concentric circle
most of access and control with an
institution in the center with a
security model that is inside out open
and accessible to everyone a security
model that is based on market forces and
game theory it is the first market based
security model where a series of
incentives and punishments ensure that
the ultimate result is you can trust the
platform itself as a neutral arbiter
that is not controlled by anyone without
third parties without intermediaries
Bitcoin revolutionizes Trust now it's
difficult to have that conversation if
you only focus on Bitcoin and arguably a
lot of people have said but it's not
just about currency what about the other
applications and it's not just about
Bitcoin what about the other block
chains and so in that sense the term
blockchain means something but only if
you define it very very narrowly I use
the qualifier open to talk about open
blockchain what I'm interested in is the
applications of this technology that
enable you to run a decentralized
trustless system that does not rely on
anyone as an intermediary of trust
because that is the disruption here that
is the essence technology so that
essence is seen in other systems
aetherium exhibits it for the
application of smart contracts but those
smart contracts only work if you don't
have to trust anyone to execute the
smart contract correctly and you can
only trust that that's going to happen
if everyone can participate in an open
manner and verify each other if access
to the underlying consensus algorithm
and mining is open to everyone and so
out of these characteristics come power
of these blockchain technologies open
and that's the keyword borderless there
are no borders transnational this is no
longer about nation-states this is about
network centric trust without third
parties the network is the trusted party
and only if you verify everything
neutral because it isn't serving the
goals of any one organization or
institution it follows the consensus
rules neutrally everyone follows the
consensus rules neutrally your
transaction there is no such thing as a
good transaction or a bad transaction a
valuable transaction or spam transaction
an authorized transaction or an
unauthorized transaction a legal
transaction or an illegal transaction in
these systems there is only a valid or
an invalid transaction based on the
consensus rules and it doesn't matter
who the sender is who the recipient is
or what the value or asset or smart
contract that's being executed is
neutrality radical neutrality and of
course censorship resistance the ability
to ensure that in order for the system
to be open and borderless and
transnational and neutral it must be
able to defend these properties by
making it impossible for any actor or
even several colluding actors from
censoring disrupting blacklisting
restricting ceasing freezing
transactions users countries from
participating in this network those are
the important characteristics of these
new open decentralized systems of trust
that do not depend on institutions
so what I'd like to equip you with is a
set of criteria to understand when you
are being presented with something
perhaps to invest or to be employed or
to engage in some way and it calls
itself a blockchain or a distributed
ledger or one of these other names that
are coming out how can you tell
blockchain or bull shit they both start
with a B what's the difference if you
can replace the word blockchain with
database and the brochure reads the same
it's business as usual it's not
decentralized it's not borderless
neutral censorship resistant open it
re-establishes trust in intermediaries
it's just the database and that is not
disruptive the idea we're going to take
this technology and use it to improve
the operating margins of centralized
institutions of trust so that they can
continue business as usual
I'd say it's abhorrent but that's a
strong word it's just boring really
really boring
no one got into this in order to make a
few billions for a financial services
Clearing House and if you did I'm really
sorry that's boring
what's really exciting is the
possibility of fundamentally changing
the way we allocate trust on this planet
opening up the ability to collaborate
transact engage on a global level with
everyone simply by means of downloading
an application you can become part of a
giant platform of trust that doesn't
care who you are where you came from
that doesn't require permission to
participate or
innovate we're a 12 year old JavaScript
programmer has the same influences power
as JPMorgan Chase more in fact because
they're doing open source and feeding
into a community of collaboration that
is creating a tsunami of innovation
taking this technology and using it to
strengthen the same centralized
institutions so that they can improve
their bottom line is boring that is not
what blockchain is that's just the
database and it doesn't change anything
in fact there are some rather disturbing
possibilities in this model let's think
about it for a second
the most commonly expressed application
for these new distributed ledger
technologies is to replace the function
of a centralized clearing house with a
consortium of n participants where n is
2 3 4 5 10 known permissions controlled
participants who will assemble
transactions and sign them rather than
compete through market forces in a
security model like Bitcoin we discard
currency as the underlying mechanism for
building market based security we
discard proof of work as wasteful
because all it allows you to do is the
centralized secure neutral censorship
resistant blockchain and we trust 5
named parties to sign transactions at
that point they don't need to assemble
these transactions in blocks they can
just sign the individual transactions
they don't need to chain them together
because absent proof of work and a
system of currency incentives rewriting
that is easy there's no immutability
so it's not a blockchain anymore because
there's no blocks and there's no chain
now that's at a technical level but
let's look at the more important level
what do you achieve by replacing a
Clearing House with a consortium of
players you know there's something
unique a clearinghouse does if you
understand the role of a clearinghouse
one of its most important functions is
that it is not a participant in the
market it has no skin in the game the
New York Stock Exchange is not an active
trader that's not an accident
that's called separation of concerns the
Clearing House is an independent party
with oversight that is not a market
participant if you take that party out
and replace it with five banks all of
which have skin in the game how do you
run a consensus algorithm when the
incentives to cheat front run manipulate
the market and break the consensus rules
even adversarially against the other
four parties are so high there's no
incentive to keep the consensus rules
all you're doing is you're saying trust
us we're in a consortium trust us these
five banks where were you in 2008 where
were you when Lieber was fixed where
were you when the gold markets were
fixed when were you in front running and
high-frequency trading was creating
these monsters of crony capitalism trust
us hell no removing the Clearing House
and replacing it with what's the word
it's not consortium cartel that's the
word
with a cartel of the same market makers
who have manipulated and compromised
every market in history and doing that
in a way that closes this from
transparency that's not a recipe for
efficiency immutability security
transparency that's not a blockchain
that's a bullshit it's a very profitable
bullshit it requires you to have
confidence in the game a con game as
it's known be careful what you evaluate
when you see these technologies taking
something whose fundamental purpose is
to remove trusted intermediaries and
create an open borderless neutral system
and turning it into a tool for a bunch
of untrustworthy trusted parties to
manipulate markets is going to be a
disaster and they're going to do it I
have some consolation in the fact that
their keys will leak because when you
centralize a system you have to keep the
security of those five keys and none of
them have ever managed to do that all of
the companies involved in this brave new
business as usual space have been hacked
breached leaked whistle blown a dozen
times they can't keep information secure
no one can the whole point of a
decentralized blockchain is you don't
keep the information secure you spread
it out so thin there's no place to
attack it directly that's what makes it
secure so what happens when you
concentrated among five participants I
can't wait until the anonymous WikiLeaks
collaborative dump
the Titans of Wall Street and their
ledger of every transaction they've ever
done
I can't wait it's going to be so much
fun and it is going to happen
you cannot secure these things so does
that mean there's nothing there no again
we go back to the other side there is an
incredibly promising technology and that
technology is based on an architecture
of openness people are examining this
market and they're grasping and reaching
out in darkness when you have a
brand-new disruptive technology you
can't see the margins
it's like stumbling around a dark room
somewhere there is a billion dollar
company somewhere in there is an
opportunity and you have to figure out
what market exists the will create
opportunity that will change the world
that will have an impact on humanity
entrepreneurs look at other people's
problems and see them as opportunities
when journalists in 1997 were writing
about the imminent failure of the
internet because of the impossibility of
finding anything Larry Page and Sergey
Brin were finding stuff and building a
multi-billion dollar empire on solving
the unsolvable problem of search there
are seemingly unsolvable problems in the
open decentralized public transparent
neutral censorship resistant global
trustless Network platform that is the
blockchain and these other block chains
Bitcoin aetherium and the many other
systems that are gradually trying to
find their niche where are those markets
there are three elements to success in
this industry the first one is
identifying a viable market right
you've got to stumble in the dark and
find something useful and very often
the people stumbling in the dark they
don't find anything useful right
in 1997 Petco was building a online
commerce empire for pet supplies it was
too early the market didn't exist web
grocer Webvan was delivering groceries
to homes in San Francisco failed
miserably was that the right market
maybe but it was the wrong time so
that's the second important element
right timing you can identify something
that at some point will be enormous but
you're off by a decade and then the most
important factor sequencing the
prerequisites why did Facebook not
happen in 1992 you didn't have enough
density of adoption you didn't have
mobile devices that were permanently
connected you didn't even have
home-based internet that was permanently
on you didn't have a dense social
network in order to engage with the
people you knew because the people you
knew barely had email or didn't have
email right so you can't build a system
of complexity that depends on many too
many interaction with high density when
you're still doing applications that are
one-to-one with low density right it's
like trying to fuse hydrogen directly
into carbon can't do that
you've got helium lithium beryllium you
got a long way to go keep smashing
things together before you get enough
density that you can start doing
interesting things in organic chemistry
right to use an example from science
bottom line is you can't do advanced
Real Estate's
title applications voting on the
blockchain retail markets you can't do
consumer to consumer dense markets you
can do points of sale
all retail with these systems yet you
can do most of the things yet there
might be very interesting markets and
the reason you can't do them is because
there's not enough liquidity there's not
enough users is not enough adoption the
user interfaces are terrible the
applications are still at their infant
stage that doesn't mean these things
can't happen it just means they're not
happening this year we're going to see
this play out in order for people to
have the trust to put the title of their
home on blockchain it has to be able to
secure not billions but trillions of
dollars in assets and in order to be
able to secure trillions of dollars in
assets it has have liquidity and
infrastructure it has to have broad
adoption you're not going to get
adoption on a transaction that most
people do twice in their lifetime when
you can't even get them to use it for
transactions they do every day right
we're not going to be doing digital
identity so that everyone can have a
bank account because it takes a long
time until you have adequate adoption
for the first 15 years of the internet
the application was email and not until
everybody had it had to have it needed
it for work did we see the second layer
emerge because that created the density
of adoption and currency is the email of
blockchains
payments are the fundamental
infrastructure that will enable density
of adoption it's very very enticing to
say this is about more than money it is
absolutely in the long-term the vision
of this technology is far beyond money
but you can't build that unless you
first build the money part that's what
creates the security that's what creates
the velocity the liquidity the
infrastructure that what funds the
entire ecosystem
and in the end when we do deliver
perhaps digital identity to people it
won't be so they can open a bank account
because this isn't about banking the
unbanked
it's about D banking all of us thank